Topic	Description
Real Estate	Real estate is property comprised of land and the buildings on it, as well as the natural resources of the land, including uncultivated flora and fauna, farmed crops and livestock, water and mineral deposits. Although media often refers to the "real estate market," from the perspective of residential living, real estate can be grouped into three broad categories based on its use: residential, commercial and industrial. Examples of residential real estate include undeveloped land, houses, condominiums and town houses; examples of commercial real estate are office buildings, warehouses and retail store buildings; and examples of industrial real estate include factories, mines and farms.
Lender	A lender is an individual, a public group, a private group or a financial institution that makes funds available to another with the expectation that the funds will be repaid, in addition to any interest and/or fees, either in increments (as in a monthly mortgage payment) or as a lump sum. Lenders may provide funds for a variety of reasons, such as a mortgage, automobile loan or small business loan. The terms of the loan specify how the loan is to be satisfied, over what period and the consequences of default. One of the largest loans consumers take out is a mortgage. Below are examples of lenders for such loans.
Net Borrower	An entity that borrows more than it saves or lends out. A net borrower could be a company, country, government, group or individual. Borrowing can take the form of debt by acquiring goods and/or services under the stipulation of future payments, borrowing funds, or by issuing debt, such as bonds. Net borrowing occurs when the monetary summation of these borrowing activities exceeds the monetary amount of funds and assets lent/saved. Also known as "net debtor".
Security	A security is a fungible, negotiable financial instrument that holds some type of monetary value. It represents an ownership position in a publicly-traded corporation (via stock), a creditor relationship with a governmental body or a corporation (represented by owning that entity's bond), or rights to ownership as represented by an option.
Mortgagor	A mortgagor is an individual or company who borrows money to purchase a piece of real property. By granting the lender an interest in the property, which allows it to lend the funds with an accurate assessment of risk, the mortgagor provides the lender with a guarantee for the full repayment of the loan. Also known as a "chargor". For most homebuyers, becoming a mortgagor is a necessary for owning a home. Because the real property in question is offered as security for the loan, the lender can claim its interest in the property in the event the loan is not repaid. This decreased risk allows homebuyers to borrow funds at much lower interest rates.
foreclosure	Foreclosure is a legal process in which a lender attempts to recover the balance of a loan from a borrower who has stopped making payments to the lender by forcing the sale of the asset used as the collateral for the loan.[1] Formally, a mortgage lender (mortgagee), or other lienholder, obtains a termination of a mortgage borrower (mortgagor)'s equitable right of redemption, either by court order or by operation of law (after following a specific statutory procedure).[2]Usually a lender obtains a security interest from a borrower who mortgages or pledges an asset like a house to secure the loan. If the borrower defaults and the lender tries to repossess the property, courts of equity can grant the borrower the equitable right of redemption if the borrower repays the debt. While this equitable right exists, it is a cloud on title and the lender cannot be sure that they can repossess the property.[3] Therefore, through the process of foreclosure, the lender seeks to immediately terminate the equitable right of redemption and take both legal and equitable title to the property in fee simple.[4] Other lien holders can also foreclose the owner's right of redemption for other debts, such as for overdue taxes, unpaid contractors' bills or overdue homeowners' association dues or assessments.
Foreclosure Action	The legal proceedings initiated by a lender in the case of mortgage default. When a borrower fails to make mortgage payments or otherwise fails to fulfill any of the obligations set forth in the mortgage agreement, the lender can enforce its rights through a foreclosure. Foreclosure is the process of selling the mortgaged property and using the proceeds of the sale to repay debt; Foreclosure action is the actual filing of and carrying through of the foreclosure process. A lender will typically initiate the foreclosure action when a borrower has defaulted on a loan after a certain amount of time, as specified in the mortgage documents. Very specific and detailed statutory procedural requirements apply to foreclosures and must be complied with to avoid any invalidation of a foreclosure sale. Proper notice of the foreclosure sale must be given to the debtor and to the general public, but exact procedures can vary state by state. All of the necessary steps in the foreclosure process constitute the foreclosure action.
Foreclosure - FCL	A situation in which a homeowner is unable to make full principal and interest payments on his/her mortgage, which allows the lender to seize the property, evict the homeowner and sell the home, as stipulated in the mortgage contract. One month after the homeowner misses a mortgage payment, he/she is in default and will be notified by the lender. Three to six months after the homeowner misses a mortgage payment, assuming the mortgage is still delinquent, and the homeowner has not made up the missed payments within a specified grace period, the lender will begin to foreclose. The farther behind the borrower falls, the more difficult it becomes to catch up since lenders add fees for payments that are 10 to 15 days late. Each state has its own foreclosure laws covering the notices the lender must post publicly and/or with the homeowner, the homeowner's options for bringing the loan current and avoiding foreclosure, and the process for selling the property. In 22 states – including Florida, Illinois, and New York – judicial foreclosure is the norm, meaning the lender must go through the courts to get permission to foreclose by proving the borrower is delinquent.
Jurisdiction Risk	The risk that arises when operating in a foreign jurisdiction. In recent times, jurisdiction risk has focused on banks and financial institutions who are exposed to the risk that some of the countries where they operate may be high-risk areas for money laundering and terrorism financing. Jurisdiction risk can also refer to when laws unexpectedly change in a jurisdiction an investor has exposure to. Jurisdiction risk is generally believed to be higher in countries that have either been designated as non-cooperative by the Financial Action Task Force, or have been identified by the U.S. Treasury as requiring special measures due to concerns about money laundering or corruption. Because of the punitive fines and penalties that can be levied against a financial institution that is involved (even inadvertently) in money laundering or financing terrorism, most organizations have specific processes to assess and mitigate jurisdiction risk.
mortgage broker	A mortgage broker gathers paperwork from a borrower and passes that paperwork along to a mortgage lender for underwriting and approval. The mortgage funds are lent in the name of the mortgage lender, and the mortgage broker collects an origination fee from the lender as compensation for services. A mortgage broker is not to be confused with a mortgage banker, which closes and funds a mortgage with its own funds. A mortgage broker is an intermediary working with a borrower and a lender while qualifying the borrower for a mortgage. The broker gathers income, asset and employment documentation, a credit report and other information for assessing the borrower’s ability to secure financing. The broker determines an appropriate loan amount, loan-to-value ratio and the borrower’s ideal loan type, and then submits the loan to a lender for approval. The broker communicates with the borrower and the lender during the entire transaction.
financial advisor	A financial advisor provides financial advice or guidance to customers for compensation. Financial advisors, or advisers, can provide many different services, such as investment management, income tax preparation and estate planning. They must carry the Series 65 license to conduct business with the public; a wide variety of licenses are available for the services provided by a financial advisor. "Financial advisor" is a generic term with no precise industry definition, and many different types of financial professionals fall into this general category. Stockbrokers, insurance agents, tax preparers, investment managers and financial planners are all members of this group. Estate planners and bankers may also fall under this umbrella.
Management Tenure	The length of time that a manager(s) has been at the helm of a mutual fund. A long-term fund performance record, preferably of five to 10 years, is a key indicator of a fund manager's investing abilities. Mutual fund investors are best served by investment managers who have proved themselves over an extended period of time. The more closely matched a manager's tenure is with a solid fund performance record, the better. For example, let's compare two different funds: The XYZ Fund has an annualized average 10-year total return of 11% and has been run by the same manager over that period. The ABC Fund has the same 10-year annualized average total return of 11%, but it has had two different managers. One's tenure covered the first nine years and the second has only been on the job for one year. Will the second manager be just as good as the first? We hope so, but making a decision on current managerial quality is difficult because fund performance and managerial tenure don't match. For obvious reasons, mutual funds under team management or index funds are not subject to questions concerning manager tenure.
Legal List	A selection of eligible companies and investments, determined by local state governments, for institutions such as insurance companies and pension plans. These are generally low risk, low volatile investments that insure the well-being of investors in institutions where safety of principal is of concern.
Insurance	Insurance is a contract, represented by a policy, in which an individual or entity receives financial protection or reimbursement against losses from an insurance company. The company pools clients' risks to make payments more affordable for the insured. Insurance policies are used to hedge against the risk of financial losses, both big and small, that may result from damage to the insured or her property, or from liability for damage or injury caused to a third party. There are a multitude of different types of insurance policies available, and virtually any individuals or businesses can find an insurance company willing to insure them, for a price. The most common types of personal insurance policies are auto, health, homeowners and life insurance policies. Most individuals in the United States have at least one of these types of insurance. Businesses require special types of insurance policies that insure against specific types of risks faced by the particular business. A fast food restaurant, for example, needs a policy that covers damage or injury that occurs as a result of cooking with a deep fryer. An auto dealer is not subject to this type of risk but does require coverage for damage or injury that could occur during test drives. There are also insurance policies available for very specific needs, such as kidnap and ransom (K&R), medical malpractice and professional liability insurance, also called errors and omissions insurance.
debt	Debt is an amount of money borrowed by one party from another. Debt is used by many corporations and individuals as a method of making large purchases that they could not afford under normal circumstances. A debt arrangement gives the borrowing party permission to borrow money under the condition that it is to be paid back at a later date, usually with interest. The most common forms of debt are loans, including mortgages and auto loans, and credit card debt. Under the terms of a loan, the borrower is required to repay the balance of the loan by a certain date, typically several years in the future. The terms of the loan also stipulate the amount of interest that the borrower is required to pay annually, expressed as a percentage of the loan amount. Interest is used as a way to ensure that the lender is compensated for taking on the risk of the loan while also encouraging the borrower to repay the loan quickly in order to limit his total interest expense. Credit card debt operates in the same way as a loan, except that the borrowed amount changes over time according to the borrower's need, up to a predetermined limit, and has a rolling, or open-ended, repayment date.
Repayment	Repayment is the act of paying back money previously borrowed from a lender. Repayment usually takes the form of periodic payments that normally include part principal plus interest in each payment. Failure to keep up with repayments of debt can force a person to declare bankruptcy and severely affect his credit rating. Borrowers should explore every alternative, such as earning additional income, refinancing and negotiating with creditors before declaring bankruptcy. There are multiple options for a borrower who is unable to repay loans according to a contract.
Surcharge	A surcharge is a fee or other charge that is added to the cost of a good or service. A surcharge is typically added to an existing tax, and may not be included in the stated price of a good or service. It may be a temporary measure to defray the cost of increased commodity pricing, such as with a fuel surcharge, or it may be permanent. A surcharge does not have to be imposed by the government. Businesses use surcharges to shift additional costs to consumers. For example, when gas prices are high, taxi companies may add a fuel surcharge of $1 to cover the increased fuel cost. Some surcharges are not included in the listed price of a good or service, requiring consumers to pay attention to the final bill or risk paying more than they expected. Surcharges may be set at specific dollar amounts, such as $5 per transaction, or based on a percentage of the total price for the associated goods or services prior to taxes being assessed.
Switching Costs	Switching costs are the costs that a consumer incurs as a result of changing brands, suppliers or products. Although most prevalent switching costs are monetary in nature, there are also psychological, effort- and time-based switching costs. A switching cost can manifest itself in the form of significant time and effort necessary to change suppliers, the risk of disrupting normal operations of a business during a transition period, high cancellation fees, and a failure to obtain similar replacement of products or services. Successful companies typically try to employ strategies that incur high switching costs on the part of consumers to dissuade them from switching to a competitor's product, brand or services. For example, many cellular phone carriers charge very high cancellation fees for canceling contracts in hopes that the costs involved with switching to another carrier will be high enough to prevent their customers from doing so. However, recent offers by numerous cellphone carriers to compensate consumers for cancellation fees nullified such switching costs. Switching costs are the building blocks of competitive advantage and pricing power of companies. Firms strive to make switching costs as high as possible for their customers, which lets them lock customers in their products and raise prices every year without worrying that their customers will find better alternatives with similar characteristics or at similar price points.
Amount Realized	An amount realized is the gain or loss resulting from a sale of an asset. The amount realized encompasses all forms of compensation, including cash, the value of any property received as payment and any liabilities that the purchaser assumes as a result of the transaction. The amount realized does not include transaction costs such as commissions and other related fees. To calculate the amount realized, simply take the difference of the total consideration given and subtract the cost basis. If the difference is positive, then the amount realized is a gain. If the difference is negative, the amount realized is a loss. The total consideration will also include any liabilities assumed, as in this example:  Assume you have sold some property that has an outstanding mortgage of $75,000 to a buyer. The buyer pays you $40,000 and assumes the mortgage. In this case, you would have realized a total gain of $115,000 ($40,000 payment + $75,000 mortgage transferred).
Finance Charge	A finance charge is a fee charged for the use of credit or the extension of existing credit. It may be a flat fee or a percentage of borrowings, with percentage-based finance charges being the most common. A finance charge is often an aggregated cost, including the cost of the carrying the debt itself along with any related transaction fees, account maintenance fees or late fees charged by the lender. Finance charges allow lenders to make a profit on the use of their money. Finance charges for commoditized credit services such as car loans, mortgages and credit cards have known ranges and depend on the creditworthiness of the person looking to borrow. Regulations exist in many countries that limit the maximum finance charge assessed on a given type of credit, but many of the limits still allow for predatory lending practices, where finance charges can amount to 25% or more annually. Finance charges are a form of compensation to the lender for providing the funds, or extending credit, to a borrower. These charges can include one-time fees, such as an origination fee on a loan, or interest payments, which can amortize on a monthly or daily basis. Finance charges can vary from product to product, or lender to lender. There is no single formula for the determination of what interest rate to charge. A customer may qualify for two similar products from two different lenders that come with two different sets of finance charges.
Cash Charge	Typically a one-time charge off that a firm makes against its earnings as part of a plan to downsize or to improve company efficiency. Cash charge requires an initial outlay of cash. Cash charges are charges that are not expected to be recurring; the company can record the cash charge as an extraordinary charge on the firm's balance sheets while taking a charge against earnings. A charge off appears as an expense on the firm's financials, thereby reducing net income. An example of a cash charge can be illustrated in a company that is making an attempt to downsize and reduce costs. The company can make a cash charge against earnings to provide early retirement packages to higher-paid employees, thereby creating an opportunity to staff these positions with lower-salaried individuals. An initial cash outlay is required to fund the retirement packages, but the expected cash savings measures implemented through reduced salary liabilities rationalize the upfront expense.
Fixed Charge	A fixed charge is any type of fixed expense that recurs on a regular basis. Fixed charges can include insurance, salaries, utilities, vehicle payments, loan payments and mortgage payments. These charges allow both individuals and businesses to create more predictable budgets and estimate their cash flows more accurately. Both businesses and individuals can have fixed charges. Businesses may have liability or malpractice insurance, while individuals pay car and home insurance. Businesses can often deduct many or all of their fixed charges as business expenses.
Activity Charge	A fee charged to cover the servicing costs of an account. An activity charge is triggered by an activity or event, and should follow a fee schedule outlined in the account contract. These fees can be based on teller and non-teller activities. Activity charges can be all encompassing; for example, a monthly service charge on a checking account may cover a certain number of transactional items. A different account may charge only per-item fees, such as a fee for each check written or each account withdrawal. A very common activity charge is the service charge for an automated teller machine (ATM) withdrawal at a bank other than your own.
Restructuring Charge	A restructuring charge is a one-time cost that must be paid by a company when it reorganizes. A restructuring charge might be incurred in the process of furloughing or laying off employees, closing manufacturing plants, shifting production to a new location or writing off assets. When a company restructures, it is usually experiencing significant problems and restructuring is an attempt to improve the business and recover financially. A restructuring charge will cost a company money in the short run, but it is meant to save the company money in the long run. A restructuring charge will be mentioned in stock analysis as lowering a company's operating income and diluted earnings. Restructuring charges will often have a significant effect on a company's income statement as a result.
Administrative Charge	An administrative charge is a fee charged by an insurer or other agency responsible for administering a group employee benefit plan to cover expenses related to record keeping and/or other administrative costs; also referred to an an "administrative fee". Most agencies bill their client companies a flat dollar amount per employee on a quarterly or annual basis.

